my name is Kobe Bryant 17 years old and
I've been lucky enough to live not only
in different parts of the United States
but Europe as well my father played
professional basketball they played for
the Philadelphia 76ers used to Rockets
and San Diego clippers you play
professional basketball for eight years
and after a year he just after his
eighth year you decided that it would be
best for him to move on and to take his
town elsewhere so we packed our bags and
moved to Italy where you played
professional basketball again for eight
years at the time I was only six years
old and I was pretty much clueless about
the whole situation but my parents
basically told me Koby going to an
Italian school and once you learn new
language
and when you're young you just basically
do whatever your parents tell you to do
with no questions asked so I said fine
imma learn this new language which I did
speak Italian fluently and I met a lot
of new faces a lot of interesting people
and no it really became my home my heart
is there my heart will always be there
so it's very hard my father told us that
he's retired from the game of basketball
and that it was time for us to come back
to America I didn't want to come back
and my sisters didn't want to come back
but when it was time to start school I
thought that me and my sisters would be
together the same school just like in
Italy but my sisters were older than I
was
they were starting high school so she
and Shane attended Lower Merion High
School and I was stuck at by the king
with middle school yeah
it was very hard didn't adjust it simply
because I had a lot of trouble
understanding English and the slang but
one thing I had in comment with some of
my other students and classmates was
basketball and unfortunately because of
the lack of communication with my peers
I wasn't invited to parties or you know
fairly friendly gatherings on a weekend
so I'm fighters and Saturdays I would go
in my rec room with my basketball and
basically dribble myself to sleep and I
think that that was the best thing that
could've ever happened to me because
they're doing those lonely hours in the
rec room I discovered the hunger the
motivation and desire to be the best
possible basketball player that I could
be and you know Here I am today give him
the old presentation in English class
not only in front of mr. Rigby's camera
but the camera of prism and ESPN and I
enjoy it I enjoy our attention because
it's a great feeling to know that you
set a goal for yourself and you were
able to reach that goal and to knock it
down I have a big decision coming up and
that's whether or not go to college or
straight to the NBA the thing that
bothers me the most about this decision
is when I'm walking down the street I'm
walking in the mall I'm going to get a
head of something somebody I've never
ever seen before comes up to me it tells
me what they want me to do
I'm like what's going on hey I know you
I mean they're coming up to me and
saying well I think you should do this I
think you do that I want you to do this
that's what I think you're gonna do I'm
just sitting there listening like okay
nice nice thank you thank you okay nice
meeting you bye-bye
but you know it comes with the territory
and I move on and I understand that I've
admired a lot of people people such as
Magic Johnson Michael Jordan Emma Smith
and entertaining such as Michael Jackson
and Janet Jackson but two people that I
admire the most so I'm my mother and my
father because when things were going
great
or whether things were going bad they
were always there for me for instance if
I just played a great basketball game I
had 40 points or whatever I'm getting
all this positive feedback from people
who are at the game and my head swelling
up and everything my parents would be
the first people to tell me how you look
you played a great game there's no need
for your hair to get all big there's no
need for you to get cocky and think that
the world owes you something but at the
same time when things are bad things are
going back they would come up to me and
say hey no there's another day to
someone come out tomorrow it's time for
you to move on and go for bigger and
bigger sites such as some bigger goals I
thank them I love them with all my heart
and I think you already been a great
audience thank you you really you really
consider Italy home that's where you
grew up that's why I grew up that's uh
why my friends are and that's I
basically learned the facts of life so
that's my home you speak Italian yes I
do that was your first language exactly
that is it true and if so tell me just a
little bit in your words is it true you
had a tough time when you came back with
the English language yeah I had a real
tough time I had trouble not speaking
English but understanding that's when I
was over there I mean my sisters would
talk but we would talk how to even pace
I came back over here
he was like motormouth everybody's
running real fast something all types of
slang I don't even understand no I had
difficulty understanding will do it say
it what is the best thing about Italy
the best thing about Italy is everybody
believes in family values family comes
first and if you're walking down the
street if you don't know the person the
person speaks to you no hi I'm Kobe uh
you know how are you doing guys over
here it's like I don't know you I'm not
going to speak to you look at you evil
or something but over there everybody's
very friendly they get to know anybody a
lot of people would say how could a
young man growing up in Italy turn out
to be one of the top two high school
basketball players in the country how
could that happen that be well once I
came back from Italy well first of all I
was pretty good basketball player over
there
but everybody said once you once you
come back to America you're not gonna be
as good because the talent is so much
higher competition is so much better so
when I came back it was really one of my
top goals to become one of the best here
in America I wanted to prove everybody
wrong they told me I couldn't do it when
I came back here I just play as hard as
I possibly could and play every single
moment here Here I am and yet you
couldn't have devoted everything to
basketball because you're a very bright
young man as well
what I mean is we live in a structured
society that requires certain kids to go
to school at certain times and you're
bright you have your grades is that
important to you - I was very important
because nowadays people may think about
athletes don't you think about
basketball or ice hockey or football
they don't really concentrate on their
grades and I think now people say well
if he's a good basketball player you
might not be doing good in school or
he's gonna put the ball in whoo but
there's always that button I don't want
to have any but when people mention Kobe
Bryant always them say he's a great
basketball player to go person he does
great in class is yeah I mean is that
what makes you extremely satisfied
because that's what we've heard
along the way and when we got to know
you a little bit better
you know we were drawn to yeah you can
play hoops but you know there's there's
a hundred kids we see a year they can
play hoops it's like these guys a sharp
young man is that what you like hearing
yes I saw like yeah I know throwing
pretty good basketball player we're
coming to me and complimentary on my
basketball everyday but I went in my
hair and Kobe you're a good person you
helped me out through school you're
doing great in school and things like
that I'd like to hear that kind of stuff
so you met this young man we're South
Carolina Myrtle Beach and his name Jared
Gibson a fan of yours yes you meet him
at a tournament and he writes you a
letter afterwards beautiful letter
what does it say dear Kobe I was life
treating you these days I was in Chile
hope that this letter may find you in
the best of health
I'm trying to thank you for the
outstanding performance and character
you displayed at the beach ball classic
my name is Jared Gibson Gibson
the little guy who continuously hung
around you from Pennsylvania Kobe I just
want you to I just want you to know the
tremendous impact you've had on my life
the short time I was in your presence
not only as a player but as a person you
are real down-to-earth and we're
accessible to your fans but I my most is
the 1,000 you scored on your SAT scores
especially relationship you have with
your dad say no more nor money can buy
you that the game of life I was dealt
you the perfect hand you're intelligent
I have a loving family and you're a very
gifted basketball player your pot of
gold at the end of the rainbow and life
awaits you grab it well please remember
these three things always thank God and
your family to your hard work it took
you to succeed and what it's going to
take to keep you there three never
forget us little guys we saw you at the
beginning of your rise to stardom just a
few just as you've touched me and giving
me the inspiration to be somebody
there will be thousands more in the
future
stay humble stay focused stay rare yes
that's really a touching letter what are
things that now that you've had an
opportunity to regain I'm sure you've
read it many times what are the things
that jump out at you that seem real to
you that you do need to think about well
the thing when he said stay focused stay
real that's very important to me because
you hear about athletes who before they
reach starting them you know you see him
with slack files with you
speech or whatever then we've started
I'm gonna get money or whatever they
kind of stick their noses up you know
say well the world always been something
that's something I don't want to have to
be looked at I want to state myself when
people see them on the street and just
come up to me speak to me and Kolby how
are you doing Jesse great he helps me
stay focused when you write letters like
this and people write me letters like
this because they they inspire me you
know I look at this wall and it's
describe it to me
well it was basically pictures from my
years of high school days and oh man
I won the Player of the Year you have a
couple of pictures of the summer
tournaments hey you and the Player of
the Year pictures and this basically
where I've accomplished so far in high
school so far there's a lot of hat I'm
looking forward to it
I'm ready to get it on finish this high
school season strongly hopefully when
the state championship that's my
ultimate goal okay I can do that and of
course there's are some where you get to
play some more more great basketball
game basketball players your father you
know thank goodness no serious injury
you know serious injury right of course
there is that unbelievable knock on
whatever is around us possibility on any
of us at any given day that something
can happen is that why education is so
important as well yes you have to have
something to fall back were not naive
enough to believe
I'm gonna play NBA basketball I'm not
going to hurt I'm Iron Man or whatever
yeah I thought something to fall back
boys have to stay at it even kill
therefore I do good in school and I get
good grades what do you think about when
you think what am I gonna do you know I
I have this unusual situation that one
high school athlete maybe every 15 years
realistically might be able to do what
am I talking about that's going to the
NBA right they go to college they stay I
don't know it so there's a tough
decision because you have the option to
go to college get a great education and
play some basketball or go to the NBA
play some basketball and day and night
and get paid for doing so but that is a
job and you have to realize that you're
gonna be missing out on a big part of
your life so it's something I'm moving
around to concentrate going before I
make a decision can the NBA wait it's
definitely definitely can wait
definitely can wait I'm not just gonna
throw myself out there because I'm being
pressured to I'm being forced I'm gonna
take my time I feel I'm ready and I'm
going but it's gonna be my choice and
only much move which brings to the other
question if you decide to go college
it's got to be LaSalle right it has to
turn or am I wrong
all I hear that every day everybody
comes up to me and says well you have to
go either side because your father's do
that's not true my father's raised me to
be an individual my mother's where he
may be an individual
they've already said Kobe I want you to
make your own decision my father tells
me this every day says Kobe I want you
to come to the South because I'm there I
want you to come come to the South and
play some basketball gonna get a great
education he doesn't want me to just go
to a Sal and 20 years from now come back
and say hey Dad I made a mistake
I should've listened to my own I should
listen to my gut feeling and when I was
with that's why me to do that English me
he made my own choice so I have no
regrets in the future you talk very
passionately about family he said that
the thing you love the most about Italy
you what are your feelings about your
family I love him so much I can't
explain I love my mother so much he
thought so much for me my father too
my sisters as well they've always been
there for me my mother and father when
we're in the house the people that are
there I can rely on and I can count on
whenever I need something and once I
step outside the house and step onto the
streets and go to school season my
sisters I've always been there for me
ever since I was a little kid they were
like my shield and the sword fight you
know they've always been there for me
protected me from right and wrong it's
still to this day they do that I love
them with all my heart so should we say
if you're listening I love you so so
much
what is it about this game that you love
hearing the ball bounce the feeling that
you get I'm making that great pass
walking on the hardwood lacing up your
sneakers I just love it I love jumping I
love Duncan and I love hearing a crowd
going away not the whole game is just
tremendous you know I sound like a MBA
commercial or something like I love this
game I do I love it
did you ever consider any other sport I
tried to play football when I was in
sixth grade I like playing football I go
and I'll be down to do well I got a
little tutorial a little too tall player
when they're bagging people start
hitting me in my legs and it feel very
good that was in the deck what's your
favorite shot pull-up shot I love it
because you know opportunity to make you
defend your dance and do a little dance
for you get the by the top of the key
put a little move on them the defenders
falling back you're taking the one spot
you think you're going to the basket he
slides on me back if you just pull it
right in his face I love that honest
answer would you rather do something
spectacular offensively or defensively
defensively no quiet no question because
I'd come down I can do a thousand when
don't
matter but guys coming at you full speed
and I'm in there protecting the house
the cars going up trying to dunk or
whatever and I go up and I just catch
the ball and I throw it out of bounds
but but I can't so I can start a fast
break I love that gives me such a big
your rise to meet the challenge
regardless you obviously know that
there's some people that say you're
ready for the NBA right now and you know
what there are some people that say that
you actually need some work for your
college game what do you say I say thank
you for the feedback everybody has an
opinion everybody sees you a different
level so I'm gonna listen and see where
I need to work or go out there work on
my skills somebody says Kobe you can
work on a certain task because your game
and I'm going I'm gonna do it next time
they see me play I'm gonna say hey look
I worked on it now wait what do I have
to work on down if they have something
else that they want me to work on I'll
go out and do the same thing so I just
really accept it taking their stride and
work with it the name Kobe's a great
name I got to tell you that's I like
that name your dad told me what it means
in Japanese tender beef I just don't see
you and look and go tender beef that's
kind of far off I guess I like my name
just pretty smooth and it's different
kind of like your game I like to think
so it's documented its factual that
Kevin Garnett did not have his grades
right okay Kevin Garnett's in the NBA
he's not blowing people away in the NBA
do you think that because of all of the
spotlight that once again oh my gosh
another guy did it since Shawn Kemp
somebody did it do you think that people
are gonna go is another kid thinks he
can do it doesn't have his grades going
to the NBA do you think about that huh
no because people will say well he
doesn't have his grades doesn't have
this great should I read the paper the
morning or if I do decide to come out
and say hey that's pretty smart the 3.0
GPA 1080 on his SATs maybe
not just a moment just another kid just
coming in think anything worth days so
they have any doubt don't see my being a
paper right in front if Kevin Garnett's
did not go directly from high school to
the NBA last year
would you even be thinking about yep
yeah that was my goal his ninth great
believe it or not I told one of my best
friends I still my best friend through
this day I said I'm a senior high school
I'm gonna have the option to go to the
NBA go to college I didn't know if he
believed me
I know if anybody believe me but that
was the goal that I've always had and I
really didn't look at saying Oh Kevin
Garnett did it now I'm seriously gonna
consider trying to do it wasn't like
that I've been raised to be an
individual drivers of Kevin of Kevin
Kevin stayed in college I went to
college or whatever I still be in the
same situation I am today do you think
have you thought will it be enough for
me to know that I could have gone to the
NBA might that be enough for you and
might that be the reason that you go to
college no reason I go to college is
because I feel like I need more
experience
I need more maturity and that I have
some growing up to do that I want to go
and experience the college life and get
that education while I was there can you
tell me honestly right now do you know
what you're going to do no it's night
it's like a balance beam like one week I
said to myself hey I want to do with him
yeah that's what I'm gonna do because I
think I saw Chicago play Orlando
something I got excited then I see North
Carolina play Duke man it's college
atmosphere it's crazy this one I want to
go on go to college so I changed my mind
like every other week but you know once
I reached that point I guess what even
kill and say it was what I wanted to do
that's what I decide